---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Firefox Add-on"
---

## Searchionary Extension

### Teamwork makes the dream work

Most often in the computer sciences courses I've taken at NYU, assignments are handed to you to complete and the work is expected to be your own. Hence, the most exposure I ever got to developing with others was when I went to tutoring for assignments where the tutors and other students would work together to help each other on our assignments. In general, I never minded group projects, but that was dependent on who I was working with because as many of us having experienced, there are people who will at times not make any contributions which can be frustrating and might just end up being more time consuming if that individual does the work incorrectly. However, on the flip side, while I still do think that group projects take longer than if the work were to just be done independently, I think there is more to learn when it comes to working together. And this is exactly how I felt when working on the extension.

Working on the extension at first, due to the fact that the project was a very small one, I wasn't sure what the purpose was in doing it together or how we would even split the work. However, one thing I found to be useful in working together was the ability to generate more ideas. Just the idea of our extension alone came together after combining everyones ideas together. For instance, originally, one persons idea was to create a flashcard functionality for an extension and another person I had suggested that we provide a dictionary extension. From there, we decided to combine the ideas in which the user could input a word and we would provide them with the definition. We also planned to further elabortate on the flashcard functionality with having the ability to save the words searched by the user, but due to the short span of time, we didn't quite get there. Additionally, one small issue that I thought might come up was arranging the meeting times. Already it can be difficult to accomodate everyone's schedules, but also as a commuter student it can be even more challenging to find the time to meet in person. However, thanks to having been virtual for the past two years, it made the arrangements even easier. In fact, not only was it easier to arrange times to meet, but I found the work could be done more efficiently in a virtual setting as well with the ability to create breakout rooms and share screens. In doing this, we were able to work better together as I shared my screen and would code, my group members would contribute to any errors they caught and would search for the errors or add more ideas to be added to the code.

### My own thoughts and reflections

When it came to working on the project, my team did a great job of contributing different ideas. Although when it came to implementing these ideas, it was a bit more challenging. Understandably so, not everyone is familiar with every programming lanuage and not everyone is proficient in web development. That being said, in our group I had the most knowledge and experience when it came to Javascript and web development, so much of my contribution was writing the code that enabled us to get the extension up and running. In addition, it sometimes can be a bit difficult in figuring how to work together and split the work, especially on a project such as this that is relatively small. And for me, I often find it helpful to outline what the work progression will look like so that was another contribution I had to the group which was organizing the workflow.

As a software engineer at my job, I have worked quite a bit with other developers on building extensions within google chrome. However, this was my first time building an extension within firefox, and although it is not vastly different from building an extension in chrome, it was interesting to try it on another browser. Due to having worked on building extensions prior, while I don't think I learned as much from a technical point of view, I do feel that this was a great opportunity to learn more about the soft skills I do have. Considering that at my job, I'm the new kid on the block, my coworkers who have been in the industry for quite sometime have a greater range of technical knowledge and better understanding of the code bases we have at our own company. That being said, when working with my coworkers, I don't often take on the role of leading discussions or ideas since there is already often a general requirement and expectation given by the manager. However, in this academic group setting, there was a lot more room for me to come up with my own ideas and take more of a lead when it came to writing the code and creating a general workflow. In that, I found that I was pretty good when it came to the skillset of project management which in itself has several soft skills including communication, organization, and more.

## Class Projects

After watching all the groups present their projects, it was interesting to see the different ideas people came up with and the different approaches they took to work together. One thing that stood out to me in regards to extension ideas was that there seemed to be a trend among the different projects of using these extensions as tools for studying/academic purposes. For instance, there was our own groups extension searchify, but there was also a number of others including study timers, YouTubeEX, focusify, and others that catered to creating tools that better serve students. In addition, what I liked about all the groups projects is that they left room for more additions. While this wasn't necessarily a project requirement to include what features they would like to see added and how students from other groups can actively contribute to it, almost all of them noted some of possible contributions that could be made in regards to bug fixes and additional features. This I think was a good way to segue into the overall course theme of open source contributions and is a good starting point for all of us to begin making simple contributions. 