---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## Code of Conduct: Go and Eclipse

We may often assume that there is a universal standard of how a person should behave ethically in any enviornment they are in whether that be school, work, in a game, etc. However, as much as we would like to assume that everyone will follow the behavioral norms of how we should act, not everyone does. This can be due to a number of reasons including the rules not being defined clearly and/or the lack of consequences for going against these rules. Without a code of conduct, there is no clear statement of ethical rules to abide by and there is no incentive to follow them. And with this, conflict is much more likely to occur between individuals working together. For this reason, having a code of conduct is crucial to maintaining the safety of every individual who is part of an open source project. And when there is a safe and friendly environment, this only further encourages people to work together, to learn, and to produce more robust products as a result.

A code of conduct is a good set of ethical rules and expectations to be followed. However, as with anything, it is never perfect. For instance, there could still be broad or vague definitions. In the code of conduct, one of the standards states that people should "focus on what is best for the community." But what is best for the community can look very different to each individual. On the other hand, looking at the Go roject's code of conduct, they did a couple things different. For one, while they included their standards, they also included their values as well which further goes in depth into the standards. For example, instead of just stating the standard to "gracefully accept constructive criticism," they also included in their values what it means to be be constructive and how to do it in a way that is constructive and not harmful to others. This allows there to be no confusion or questions as to what is considered constructive feedback and what isn't and in doing so, it further enforces that standard. In addition, another interesting difference is the enforcement of these standards. For the code of conduct, it states people should report those who go against the standards whereas, the Go project while offering support to handle such situations, they also encourage conflict resolution. A good reason for the Go project encouraging members amongst the community to resolve issues between one another is one, in many cases it could just be a case of miscommunication that can be clarified without the involvement of the committee. In addition, it also to a certain extent holds other community members accountable to support others and enforce the standards.

In reviewing the [Eclipse code of conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php), their code of conduct is essentially a replica of the Contributor Covenant code of conduct. In comparison to the Go Project's code of conduct, the Go Project certainly added many more of the communities own personal ethical values and practices whereas Eclipse did not. There is no clear reason as to why Eclipse didn't choose to make any changes, but perhaps one possibility might be that by keeping it short, users are more likely to read the document and also remember the main standards more easily.

## Sugar Labs

Looking at Sugar Labs code of conduct, their struggle was slightly different. Instead of listing the the rules under the standards section, they set each rule/value as its own header and gave it a section. This is similar more so to the Go project where they list their own values and also included a conflict resolution of in consulting with others and asking for help. However, the main difference in comparison to all other code of conducts is the structure in that they did not include the scope, a standards section, or a pledge.

## Python's Code of Conduct

One popular open source project that I would be interested in working on is Python. Looking at [Pythons code of conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/conduct/) at first glance, it seems that their code of conduct follows the generic format by providing the same list of standards seen in both the Eclipse and Go project. In addition, they did not include their own personal community values which was something both the Go project and Sugar Labs did. However, there were several sections Python included within their code of conduct that were nowhere present in the other open source projects including weapons policy, list of events hosted by Python where the standards apply, a list of online spaces where the standards apply, and also a list of groups of individuals of who these standards apply to. This is interesting that they chose to list each event, group, and online platform instead of just stating "all python community members must follow this standard" as that would have been easier to do. However, given that this is a large project and there may be people who attend Python events that are not actively a part of working on the open source project such as volunteers helping the event, they made sure to include them as well. In doing so, their code of conduct does not only enforce the ethical standards to members within the community, but rather to anyone within any virtual or physical place/event hosted by Python.