---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Christopher Snider Presentation, Open Source and the Community
---

## Christopher Snider's Presentation

Having Christopher Snider come to the class to speak on Tidepool and the work being done for those with diabetes was very inspirational. <!--more--> One of the biggest takeaways from the talk he gave was a new perspective. I must admit that it easy to take things for granted in any aspect of life. And it isn't until we see the struggles others face that we begin to appreciate so much more what we do have. Listening to Christopher Snider speak on his experience having diabetes, he mentioned that before he partakes in any activity or even indulges in food, he must check his blood sugar levels first. This isn't just an inconvenience or an extra step in his day, but rather it's something that can be scary in that it can hold severe consequences if it is not managed properly. In relating this back to my own life, I thought about the times where I simply just do things when I want such as take a walk, eat some late nights sweets, etc and how although it seems so simple to me, for others it isn't. This overall, gave me a new sense of appreciation for what I considered to be simple things I could do in my life without second thought.

In his discussion about Tidepool, it was even more inspiring to see how he took something that was a challenge to him and found a way to contribute to a resource for that challenge. In class, we discussed the importance of open source projects maintaining a friendly environment. After learning about Tidepool, I felt that there was that sense of community and openness amongst its' users and the contributors. Given that diabetes is something many are diagnosed with, it is nice to see that Tidepool creates the space for their users to feel that sense of community with one another.

## Open efforts in communities

Last class we had an open discussion on the role open efforts play in communities. Part of the discussion was centered around open source education, specifically including the idea of textbooks being online. Personally, I think this is a great idea for a number of reasons. For one, it allows for a greater access to education for everyone. Second, there's the possibility to continually improve the content of the books being written. This can be done a myriad of ways including being able to incoporate additional view points from other authors, correct any errors/typos/misconceptions within the book, add more examples, and more.