---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Open Source, the industry, and project updates
---

## Open Source and the Industry

When I think about open source, I automatically think software. <!--more--> However, what I don't think about is the many different types of open source software there exist and how it is applied in many different environments. That being said, one of the things we watched I found interesting was the podcast about open source in the film industry. I don't often think about open source programming in the artistic light, which is interesting in itself given that Blender is an open source project I'm contributing to that is a software used for artistic purposes. However, it was cool to see how open source even plays a role in industries that are nowhere near associated with programming. I also found it to be intuitive as it definitely makes sense as to why film industries want to make it open source since then people within the industry can actively contribute to improve the software in ways they need it to be applied.

## Project updates

Each week our group has been getting progressively closer to contributing to an issue. Although we found one issue we could contribute to, we were waiting on responses from other developers in regards to questions we had. In the meantime, we decided to try and search for other issues we could work on. One of the challenges in this was that many of the issues were out of scope as it required a lot of knowledge of math, particularly linear algebra, and it also required strong knowledge of the software of itself. Not having either those, it became very difficult to find issues that didn't involve this. That being said, one work around we came up with was to find more User interface issues which consist of materials we are more familiar with such as html, javascript, etc. That said, we actually created our own issue based off some of the errors we found within the documentation for blender. We began working on the issue and although we were able to make the changes to fix it, we had trouble submitting the changes. Submitting the changes requires a diff/patchset to be uploaded, but when we tried to do that, there were many errors and we struggled to commit it. Without this, we won't be able to get our code reviewed and thus, we won't be able to contribute to the issue. This makes it imperative that our next immediate steps are to figure out how to upload a diff.