---
layout: post
title: Week 3 Git and Jim Hall
---

## Git Activity

Prior to taking this course, I did have experience working with git as an part-time software developer at my job. However, my process of learning git was through just learning on the job which didn't involve reading through much documentation on how to properly use git and best practices. That said, I never had a great understanding as to why we do certain things in git and also, I must admit that some of my git commands I would run were definitely not best practices. One of the things I often do when working on a project at work, was I would create a new branch.However, although I was creating a new branch, I never fully understood what a branch was or why we do it, I was simply following what the given instructions were. And a main part of the reason for this in not learning what a branch is, was because I was intimidated by the complexity and vastness of git. However, this exercise definitely made me feel more comfortable in learning about git and in return, I did learn about the different terminology and why we do certain things in git such as create a branch. Furthermore typically, after making changes on my files, I would often just run the command "git add --all". After previous weeks exercises, I quickly understood that that isn't something we want to do as there may be files we don't want to add. That being said, this week's git exercises not only helped me better understand different git terminology, but also helped me understand better practices.

## Jim Hall

Having Jim Hall come to give a lecture last week was a great experience that broaden my view on the depths of open source software in how far back it dates to, how large it is, and the role it plays in the development of other projects. One of the things that I thought was interesting to hear was the history of open source software. For myself, having been born in 2000, I could speak to the experience of seeing the advancement of technology in computers, the web, etc. However, I couldn't speak to the experience of what it was like to work the much earlier versions of computers and software which Jim spent a significant time discussing. In doing so, broadened my perspective as to just how far open source software development dates back to, but also it provides a level of appreciation in that open source contributions can be made much more easily now given the amount of tools we have today. Furthermore, one other thing that Jim mentioned which I found interesting was his discussion on how different projects build off one another. He first mentioned that open source development allows people to continually build off one another which in turn, creates better versions of existing projects. This I already knew since in most projects, having multiple people work together tends to produce more robust and higher quality results. However, Jim then followed that by saying not only do open source projects enable projects to build off one another, but the same applies to closed source projects as well in that closed projects can serve as stepping stones for open source projects. This took me by a little bit of surprise because at the beginning of this course, I viewed closed projects as sort of being only for the purpose of security or monetary reasons in that no one else could steal another's idea and profit off of it or use it maliciously. But after hearing Jim explain that closed projects can serve a purpose greater than just for security purposes, it again broadened my perspective to the different roles projects can play in open source development, even if it is not actually open source. Overall, I think Jim did a wonderful job at really shining a light on the history of open source and the different roles that are within open source that sometimes we don't often think about.