---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

When our group first began working on the Blender project, I must admit that we were quite lost and intimidated by just how large the project is and how complex it can be in that there are many different components. However, step by step, we collectively have begun to ease into being able to make contributions. Thankfully, being that Blender is a very large open source project, it does offer many resources. That said, there was a start up guide that provided instructions for setting up the environment as developers, along with good first issues for beginners. As a group, we went through this start guide together to navigate the various platforms used within Blender such as the issue/ticketing system, the communication channels, and more. In doing so, this enabled us to get set up as developers and ready to make contributions.

Before we could start contributing, it was important that we got a solid understanding of the Blender software itself. To do this, we went through a series of tutorial videos that showed how to build 3D objects within Blender. Blender having many bells and whistles within its' software, it was intimidating at first and quite confusing to figure out how to use it. But, with the tutorials and also having the support of each other as a group, we were able to provide ourselves with a basic foundation on how the software works which would allow us to make necessary contributions whether it be a bug or feature.

Having set up our environment and having gained an understanding of the software, we are now at the place where we are claiming issues and beginning to make contributions. As far as the structure of group meetings go, we have set it up to implement SCRUM style meetings where we go over what we have accomplished so far, what we are currently working on, and what our next steps are. While addressing those different things during our meetings, it allows us all to be on the same page as well as be able to help each other along each step of the way.