---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Business Models and Progress on Blender
---

## Open Source Business Models

In thinking about open source, <!--more--> the first word that automatically comes to mind is "free." This is great in the context when thinking about making software projects accessible in that it is available to users and developers, but thinking in regards to a business seeking to make revenue, I begin to question how? However, after the class discussion surrounding open source business models, I came to find out some interesting ways in which businesses can profit off making their projects open source. From the class discussion, there are four business models including supportive and services, advertisement partnerships, paid additional features, and software-as-a-service. Also, talking about this in conjunction with watching the talk hosted by the Gitlab CEO and Joseph Jacks, I understand the ways in which open source can be used as a business model.

## Progress on Blender

This past week, our group took time to learn the foundations of using the Blender software. To do this, we used several YouTube tutorials that walked us through on how to build a 3D donut. This helped all of us to get a basic understanding on how to use the software which is imperative to know in order to be able to begin working on issues that involve resolving bugs within the software and also adding features. After this, we then began to look through good first issues that we could work on as a group. However, we thought it would be good to start with a fairly simple issue to understand how to contribute to Blender considering they have their own platform for issues and several requirements in order to contribute. That being said, we did find a good first issue that seems relatively simple and involves changing a keyboard shortcut since there are two functions within the software the point to the same keyboard shortcut. As of right now, our group has been currently working on that issue and learning how to contribute to Blender using their platforms.