---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
When I hear the term "open source," I automatically focus on the first word "open." To me, that means it is a project that can be shared with others for use and could also possibly modified by others as well. I have always been an advocate of the saying "teamwork makes the dream work" because there are many advantages when it comes to working together. Some of the obvious ones include new ideas being shared, being able to provide constructive feedback, being able to help others fix issues within the project, possibly completing the work quicker, and overall, creating a much more robust and reliable project. And these advantages can apply not only to the development of a project, but even in testing it as well. When developing software, by making it open source, with the help of others, you can test its' scalability and accessibility. For instance, with more people having access to the source code, they can ensure whether it runs across various machines and browsers. In addition, with it being open, you can also ensure that different types of users, particularly those that are disabled can access the software and if not, they may be willing to even work on the issue themselves and fix it since it is open. These advantages of making projects open, allow there to be a higher level of quality in the software which in itself can lead to more advantages for consumers and the developers.

However, there are of course disadvantages as well when it comes to open source, with the most prevalent issue being security issues. For instance, if a bank were to release the source code for accessing users bank accounts, then people with access to this could easily use it for malicious activity to access others information and bank accounts. Another disadvantage could be that with many developers adding different features to a certain project, there is no guarantee that these features are always user-friendly or that they are well developed. This can make it more difficult for the users in that not only can it make it more difficult to use the software, but when it comes to finding support, it would also be more difficult.

While I can identify these different advantages and/or disadvantages that come with open source software development, I personally have never been a part of open source software development. I have been taught in many previous computer science courses how to code in various languages, but never have I been taught on how to create a program with others or how to contribute to an already existing program. I certainly would like to learn more about open source and what it is. But, I also think there is a lot of skills that can be gained from this course even as a programmer. In contributing to open source projects, were learning how to effectively write code together, learning to write readable code, learning to read others code, and lastly also getting the chance to be exposed to different frameworks and tools.

Before discussing open source, I never quite paid attention to the different software I regularly use that is open source. One of the main open source projects I regularly use and am even using at this very moment is Visual Studio Code. About 95% of the programs I write for classes, work, and even my own personal projects are written using Visual Studio Code. Some others I have also recently used is Python, Apache, and JQuery. I have written programs in both Python and JQuery and have hosted them locally using Apache. These are just a handful of some open source projects that I use frequently, and I'm sure there are many others.
